This section we're going to describe the case study or the problem at hand in a form of a machine learning
terminologies.
OK.
So let's get started.
So the first step is here we have our Again images that we acquired using the f n h technique.
So we have some images that are indicating that the cancer is malignant or in some other images that
detect the cancer is benign and then we extract out of this basically 30 features OK which indicating
radius texture perimeter area and smoothness.
All right.
And all that data set has been done for you.
So obviously we're not you know like physicians or doctors of cancer experts.
We're going to look into the images per se.
Our focus right now is to access all these features and all the data you can access it from here it's
in.
If you just follow that link it will give you the access to the data.
And in this data you'll see that we have 30 features and these 30 features we're going to feed them
into the classifier or the machine learning model that can classify to us if the cancer again is malignant
or benign.
Right.
So the first step is how many data sets we have.
So in this case study we're going to have five hundred and sixty nine instances which means that we
have five hundred and sixty nine instances divided between them some of them again malignant some of
them benign.
And in this case study we have two hundred and twelve malignant cases and three hundred and fifty seven
benign cases.
All right.
So what we do again and how we treat the classifier is that we tell the machine learning model when
we train it when we teach it how to classify is OK.
Look at these features which is in this case we have three features and we can teach you the target
class.
We're going to say OK if you look at these features then indicate that the cancer is let's say zero
which is malignant in this case.
And then if you look at these three features may be classified as one which is kind of a benign.
So it's kind of the output is is a binary in a form indicating zero or one for malignant or benign and
that's how we are going to feed or teach our machine learning model how to classify cancer in this case.
All right.
So let's take a look at the technique we're going to be using in this case study which is what we call
it support vector machines.
OK.
So let's assume that we have peed on the x axis first feature.
One of these features one of the three features we call a feature one and the y axis we have other features
feature too.
And as you can see here we have these two classes per se in this or in our case let's assume that this
for example the malignant case and this case these points are the red points are the benign case.
And what we do is we wanted the machine learning strategy or technique to simply separate the two classes
in a very simple form.
We can just draw a line in between here which indicates OK that's the line that the tax or separate
the two classes.
Someone can tell me OK maybe that's not the line maybe we can put this line instead.
Or maybe this line instead.
And so on.
OK.
So the objective of the training of our model of using the support that the machine method is to find
the best line that separates the two classes.
OK.
So that baseline in this case we are going to rely on mainly these two points and these two points in
our study we're going to call it the supported vectors.
OK.
Again we're not going to dig into the math mathematics of all that is going to give you an intuition
of what support vector machines are and how can we apply it in practical Python environment.
So you guys can see here this is basically what we call the maximum margin hyperplane which is the hyperplane
or the line that separates mainly the two classes.
OK.
In order to get this line we use a distance of what we call it the maximal motion distance and that's
the objective of the machine classifier is to find or maximize that maximum margin distance between
the two classes.
And in order to do this we use these two many points.
And in this case we call them support vectors.
Right.
So what do you mean by support vector support vectors are the points that we assume that these points
are on the boundary or a kind of an end on a gray area.
OK.
They are not fully malignant in this case or benign in this case.
It's kind of in between with human eyes for example or physicians might be able to.
I don't know.
This cancer is malignant or benign or for example of this like image is a cat or a dog.
Right.
And that's why the support that they're classified is very unique in this sense that it's simply uses
the points or the support vectors that are on the boundary to draw the boundary and to classify the
classes.
And actually we can see here as well in the other case study that supported machines are very powerful
really powerful techniques.
And why because it's kind of an extreme algorithm it doesn't classify For example the like samples or
these samples it just focus on the supposed doctors or the points on the boundary and separate them
somehow.
All right.
So let's take a look at a practical example to get and maybe more understanding of the intuition behind
that.
So if you guys can see here again we have our two classes we have our hyper hyperplane And here we have
these are the two support doctors.
OK.
So let's assume that we wanted to for example classify images or to teach the machine learning model
to classify images of cats and dogs.
OK.
So for example this point indicates let's say the blue indicates the cats and the red and the heads
of dogs.
OK.
So if you wanted to classify cats these points which just kind of have a completely distinct or completely
different feature compared to the other points you would see that it's very easy.
It can easily identify that this is a cat.
OK which is really simple wide with the features of the cat are very distinct.
Anyone even if you teach a kid can tell you OK this basically a cat.
Right.
If you look at these points on the far left that indicates that these features are for a dog.
OK you can tell that from the feature from the nose from the ears from so on that from the color that
these features indicates.
OK this is like hundred percent dog.
It's very difficult for the machine learning technique to misclassify them to make basically mix cats
and dogs.
Right.
However for the machines what we do in order to teach the model that we rely on the support that there
is which of these two many points there a kind of lie in the boundary.
OK which is basically you can see here kind of an image that you know maybe I had a hard time.
Is this like a dog that has some features of a dog at the same time has some features of a cat scan
of the mix.
Right.
And these are the points that mesh the support that the machine uses to classify or separates the two
classes.
All right.
I hope you guys enjoyed that section and support that machine section and in the next section we're
going to look into the Jupiter notebook and start to visualize the data.
I hope you guys enjoyed that section.
And until then enjoy machine learning.